Marc Cohen micro design document game03

Markdown
-------------



For my game 03 concpet,  I will follow a model similar to the Roll a Ball game.   The user will control a ball or "character" and the goal of the game is to collect health gems, keep your health bar above 0% and avoid the projectiles coming towards you, which lower your health.  There will be several projectile gameobjects that follow your userobject and inflict damage to your health bar (at the top of the screen) every time it touches the userobject.   There will be health objects that spawn randomly on the play field, and the user will be able to pick up these health objects when you touch them,  which regenerates some health (nothing happens if your health bar is already at 100%).  There will be an option on the screen to set off a bomb,  which will clear the screen of all the damage gameobjects for x seconds,  but that bomb will decrease your health by x%.  The skill of the game involves navigating your user gameobject from the damage inflicting objects,  which will come at a speed and increasing frequency that makes it difficult to balance using the bomb (to clear the screen), and picking up the health gems.  There will be sound cue whenever the user touches the health gems,  a sound cue when damage is inflicted, and a sound cue when the bomb goes off.  There will also be a button that when pressed,  your health bar is restored by x %,  but it in turn makes the damage game objects "angrier", causing them to move faster.   The time the user lasts in the game will be displayed on the screen as a score.  I might implement "levels" in my game,  where a user reaches a new level every x seconds,  and each level,  there are a few more damage gameobjects. 
I will need to implement features in the scripts to help the different gameobjects interact with each other, like the health bar updating when damage is inflicted, when a health gem is collected, and when a bomb goes off.   The damage objects will need to respond to the user pressing the bomb button.  I will also need to implement the health gems to spawn randomly at different times and positions on the play field. The damage gameobjects will need to have their speed updated when the user presses the "health restore" button,  and be cleared from the screen when the user presses the "bomb" button.  I will need to make the health bar respond to several variables of the game based on which gameobjects interact with the user object , and which buttons the user presses. 